---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "BrowserHistoryWODs"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2024-01-30
published: true
labels:
  - WOD Reflection
---

This process was about as painful as I expected, for about all of the reasons I expected. Firstly, I did not have much experience setting up recording software as well as capturing both footage and aduio simultaneously. Those two things were surprisingly easy to work out, though it was annoying seeing the pitiful limits of my microphone sensitivity.
Moving on to the actual WODs, Browser History 1 wasn't too bad. My main issue for this WOD besides the aforementioned set-up process was the amount of HTML that I didn't have memorized. My first attempt got to 20 minutes, so I cut it short pre-emptively (as I was trying to work without outside resource) and looked at the screencast to fix the portion that I had messed up. After a bit of fiddling around with VS Code to test the mechanic that I forgot, I started the second attempt and comfortably scored an Rx performance in ~11 minutes. This exercise helped me unrust by actually using VS Code without step-by-step instruction for once. If you aren't sure about how to do a step, use the resources given to you (especially w3schools)! Much of the time, they will contain all of the information you need to complete each WOD!
Next up was BrowserHistory2, which was by far the worst of the three, for multiple reasons. For a start, I was barely 3 minutes into my first recording before I stopped it. This was because I was unable to get the Oswald font to show up. My second recording skipped that step and got to just under 7 minutes will all steps besides the Oswald font and the image floating steps done. However, with little idea how to accomplish either, I quit to look at the screencast and back at HTMLDog. In this time, I figured out after about 20 minutes of inspection that the reason my images weren't showing up was because I had rushed to type the "src" command and had accidentally typed in the file extension for the Google Chrome image "svg". My third attempt had every other step done in less than 5 minutes, but the Oswald font still would not appear on the html file. After about 15 minutes between that recording and my final one, where I tested the answer that was posted in the Discord (to no avail), my last attempt was ~4 minutes long, where I again completed every step besides the last one in ~3 minutes and spent another minute or so talking about what the issue with the Oswald font and some possible workarounds to take into account for next semester when running the class. The most important thing I learned from this was that rushing to both create and correct can have you easily overlook small details that could be more easily resolved with a clear head. If you aren't very adept at coding, make sure your commands are correct! VS Code does a decent number of things automatically, like quotations and ending tags, so focus on the errors that you could have made instead.
Finally, BrowserHistory3 was the easiest of the three. It was my only WOD (so far) to be completed in one attempt (and in under 6 minutes to boot), due to a short revisiting of the resources to help with the process beforehand. However, there was a small hiccup that I wouldn't count as an attempt, as no relevant code was written, which is also my most important lesson from this WOD. About 5 minutes into my first recording, I noticed that I was working on the style folder in BrowsingHistory2 rather than BrowsingHistory3, and so none of my code was showing up on BrowserHistory3's index.html file. Therefore, the most important thing I learned is that one should alwasy keep track of what file they are working in while they are coding. This is especially true in this case, as per the instruction, all of the files in each BrowsingHistory(x) folder are named exactly the same thing, and so the only distinguishing detail between each is the greyed-out file path near the top of VS Code. If you aren't sure why things aren't having any effect when you write your code, make sure you are both coding in and displaying the correct file!
